---
layout: post
title: "About Me"
date: 2014-06-08 07:06:48 -0400
comments: true
categories: 
---

My name is Joe Ruether. I graduated from Michigan Technological University with a bachelors in Computer Engineering and Electrical Engineering. Currently I am a full time Software Engineer at a company that designs radar systems. I am working towards my masters in Computer Science at Drexel University.

I'm a programmer at heart, I love being able to express my thoughts in the form of code and have the machine act it out. Programming allows me to bring my ideas to life, to build a world that I can share. I feel that programming is an art form that combines the creativity of writing with the logic of mathematics.

I am fluent at C++ and would consider myself an advanced user, I frequently use templates and metaprogramming, and I am very familiar with many of the Boost libraries. C++ is the main language I use and work with. I very much enjoy C++. As for Python, the only real reason I use it is for the workplace; I don't really prefer it as a language, although I do recognize its usefulness and the fact that it is available on every Linux machine. My favorite language so far is Ruby, and I have been trying to teach myself Ruby in my spare time. Not Rails, I haven't gotten to that yet, I am primarily focusing on desktop applications. Unfortunately, I do not know too much Java.

I am a Linux user and am a fan of open source software. As such the projects I create will be released under the GPLv3 license. You can find them all on GitHub. I use Debian as my main OS, particularly because it really is the "Universal Operating System"; it is stable, mature, flexible, and has a massive package collection as well as a strong community.

Personality-wise, the Myers-Briggs test classifies me as an INTP, and I think the description of that describes me well:
>
Seek to develop logical explanations for everything that interests them. Theoretical and abstract, interested more in ideas than in social interaction. Quiet, contained, flexible, and adaptable. Have unusual ability to focus in depth to solve problems in their area of interest. Skeptical, sometimes critical, always analytical.



